Attention:
- Do not edit this file in text editors like Word. Use a plain text editor only. In case of doubt, you can use Spyder as a text editor.
- Do not change the structure of this file. Just fill in your answers in the places provided (After the R#: tag).
- You can add lines in the spaces for your answers but your answers should be brief and straight to the point.
- You can include references to images or html files such as the reports generated with clusters. To do this, simply include this document in the folder with the reports or images and refer them in the text by the file name in an isolated line. For example, the line

test.png

refers to a test.png image file in the same folder as this document.

QUESTIONS:

Q1: Explain how you selected the best attributes for the clustering phase. In particular, indicate the visualization methods used to explore the extracted attributes and any statistical tests used.
R1: We proceded to apply both pca, kpca and isomap in order to extract the best features from each. We then decided to plot a scatter matrix where we can see the correlation between pairs of features and the destribution of each features


Q2: After selecting the attributes, did you standardize or normalize the values? Justify your decision.
R2: We decided to standardize since there might be some outlier, standardizing would be more resistant to these and since the destribution of our features are Gaussian it would not be a good option to use Normalization


Q3: Explain how you found the parameters for the clustering algorithms.
R3: We applyed the algorithms multiple times and saw which ones had the best results and which parameters they had.



Q4: Describe your analysis of the parameters using the internal and external indicators referred in the assignment page. Include the  plots for the indicator values ​​(indicating the image name of each plot in one line in your answer) as a function of the parameters and explain how you chose the ranges for examining these parameters. Indicate, with justification, what conclusions you can draw from this analysis.
R4:We plotted for each algorithm their corresponding indicators (kmeansPlot, AggloPlot, ). 
We decided the x-axis would be the number of clusters(that we believe 4-9 clusters would be enought considering our data because we want to separate the 3 stages of the cells life aswell as the segmentation errors and 
we decided to go up to 9 to observe if we can identify any structure besides the stages mencioned), and the y.axis to be from 0-1 since that is the range of the indicators.
To choose our best algorithm we valued more the Rand indicator and F0.5 measure because F0.5 takes into account both precision and recall but values more the precision. We think both are important but to our case having less false positives allows the clusters to have less cells in different stages classified as similiar.With this method the scientists can have more certainty that the cells in the same cluster are similar.
For the Rand indicator it gives us how correct are the algorithm decisions.

Q5: Select some of the parameter values ​​tested in the question above and examine the corresponding clusters more closely, generating the HTML file with the images. Explain how you selected these parameter values, discuss the different options and propose a recommendation that could help the biologists' task of classifying cells and rejecting segmentation errors.
R5:Having the previous indicators into account the best algorithm after a series of tests was the bisecting K-Means hierarchical algorithm with 4 clusters.
(PS:Spectral Algorithm from time to time gets the highest score with 6,7 and 8 clusters. However after analysing the HTML result we realize that big part of the cells were in only one cluster while only few were split amongsnt the rest and we think this is not exactly the best result for the biologists.)
We ran the algorithms multiple times for each parameter, for each iteration we selected the algorithm with the best score and in the end we choose the one that appearer more often.
Looking into the Html output we can clearly identify a pattern between clusters where each one represents the different life stages but we can also identify cells that dont seem to fit from our prespective.

Q6: Discuss advantages or problems with the algorithms analysed for the purpose of helping biologists to organize these images, considering your theoretical knowledge of these algorithms as well as the results you obtained in your work.
R6: We know that depending on the structure of the data some algorithms are better than others. This type of data seems to work better with the bisecting K-Means hierarchical because the data fits relatively well into it.
Even thought we were not expecting perfect results when clustering, we were at least expecting a better result from the algorithms. Maybe if we had explored more parameters within the algorithms we could have gotten the better results.

Q7: Consider other clustering algorithms embedded in the Scikit-Learn library. Choose one and apply it to this problem, optimizing the parameters you deem appropriate in the way that you find adequate. Justify your choices and discuss whether this option would yield more useful results for biologists.
R7:For this question we decided to implement the Bisecting Kmeans from Scikit-Learn with the biggest inertia bisecting strategy. We decided to use this algorithm since our implementation of the Bisecting algorithm was using the larger cluster strategy.
After the implementation and observation of the results we observed that it appear more often as the one with better results.

Q8: Implement the Bissecting K-Means hierarchical clustering algorithm as described in the assignment page and Lecture 19. Examine and discus s the results and their application to the problem of helping the biologists select and classify cell images.
R8: The structure represented by the result of the implementation of the Bissecting K-Means hierarchical, after analysing the HTML file we can see that it tends to group the data by the britness of the cells outside ring, after this separation it tends to group the data in a realatively good way to separate the different stages of the cells life.
As we saw in the previous question using the biggest inertia strategy seems to show better results and maybe implementing the Bisecting with this strategy we could have gotten even better results.

